For this video, let's pretend that you and your sister are playing a game of ball.
You are given one bank or 100 coins from which you plan on buying a video game console.
For each time either of you misses the ball,
you lose one coin from the bank to your parents.
Hence, you both will try to keep the ball in the game to
have as many coins as possible at the end.
This is an example of cooperative environment where the agents
are concerned about accomplishing a group task and cooperate to do so.
Consider that now you both have two separate banks.
Whosoever misses the ball,
gives a coin from their bank to the other.
So, now instead of cooperating,
you're competing with one another.
One sibling's gain is the other's loss.
This is an example of competitive environment where
the agents are just concerned about maximizing their own rewards.
Notice how in the cooperative setting both you and
your sibling lose a coin while in the competitive setting,
one loses a coin when the other gains a coin.
So, the way reward is defined makes
the agent's behavior apparently competitive or apparently collaborative.
In many environments, the agents have to show a mixture of
cooperative and competitive behaviors which
leads to mixed cooperative competitive environments.